# Final paper

## 1. Professional interests of myself

Since my undergrad is majored in electrical engineering, my current interest is trying to combine my interests in music with computer technologies in some creative way so that I might be able to create music with the assistance from innovative software/hardware. 

This semester I have read some papers about introducing machine learning technology to the fields of music production and music generation. Specifically, I have learnt about some useful tools and libraries created and published by Google Magenta project, such as Melody RNN, Coconet, NSynth, MusicVAE, etc. Take Melody RNN for example: since music is naturally in a sequential structure, which fits well with the structure of recurrent neural network (RNN), which has a chain-like loop structure that allows information learned in the previous loop to persist, we might be able to take use of this special structure to mimic some human mental activities. And RNN does have shown huge progress in the fields such as speech recognition, language modeling, translation and image captioning. Music, if we regart it as some sort of a language in a broader way, might also benefit from the power of RNN, so models such as Melody RNN and performance RNN are created in hope of being used as creative tools by musicians in the coming future. I will keep exploring this field of making music with the power of the emering new technologies.

## 2. Primary characters of music in history

1600-1900: music is used to express human emotion and feelings, and the structure is in a synchronous, deterministic, and palindromic way. Classic musical instruments were used.
1900-1925: music that is not in a synchronous structure started to show up, classical instruments were used in a different way.
1925-1950: new structure such as atonality, or non-structure such as randomness introduced by John Cage showd up. 
1950-2000: new technology such as tape recorders were used to not only store the audio, but also in making new music; the concept of musique concrète set free the definition of music notes, so that any sound, natural or artificial, could be used to make music
2000-present: medium of processing and recording music transformed from analogue to digital, computer/software starts to play an important role in music production; music will continue to evolve with new technology advances

## 3. How would the character of music today affect my interests?

I grew up listening to both classical music played by traditional instruments and various novel sounds generated by synthesizers and computers, so neither of them are unfamiliar. For me, classical music tends to be more formal and sophisticated in structural details due to their longer development history, and those that survived the filter of time are the best of their kind, expressing feelings shared by all human beings; present music, on the other hand, are more personal and tends to show the uniqueness of the creator, full of energy and imagination and trys to extend the limit of music's boundary. In such a context, my insterest might be to learn from the music from the past and to appreciate their beauty, and then to create new music that in some way might inherit this beauty in new perspective assisted by today's technology.