# The Evolvement of Music with the Progress of Technology and Science

Music history could be regarded as a mirror, which reflects the history of the society. From this mirror, we can learn how people saw the world in the past, deduce the way they imagined beyond the physical world, and investigate the change of culture in both scientific and artistic fields.

In 1607 at Mantua, Italy, Orfeo by Claudio Monteverdi marked the first time the human personal emotion is projected in the Opera, which, through certain drama, is used to convey human emotion and feelings in the form of music. This anthropomorphic projection in music might be seen as a reflection to the overall cultural movement during the Renaissance.

Later came the influence of Isaac Newton, where people during 17th to 19th centuray came to understand the nature and the world in a more scientific way thanks to Newton's three laws of motion. The orrery model is a perfect example to show how people saw the world: everything is synchronous, deterministic, and palindromic. Musicians are no exception at that time: the piano at that time was usually played along with other instruments and every thing happened together in  a synchronous way, focusing on humanly emotional expression.

This synchronous mental model continued until 20th century, when came out the thought from Albert Einstein and his theory of Relativity, which states that everything is not in synchronous, and that the faster you go, the slower the time feels. In another word, everything is going in its own time. Interestingly, the similar thoughts happened to composers at that time, even though the composers might not necessarily know Einstein's idea: _Putnam’s Camp_ by Charles Ives showed asynchronous simultaneity; _La soirée dans Grenade_ by Claude Debussy had a lot of quick cut down; _Petrushka_ by Igor Stravinsky featured a lot of quick changes. 

Different voices go on in different speed, showing up in different time. The orrery model could no longer describe how these composers saw the world, but this doesn't mean that the classical mental model of orrery no longer existed in the later time: Evgeny Kissin still played Sergei Rachmaninoff’s Piano Concerto 2 in 1901, and Anna Fedorova played Sergei Rachmaninoff’s Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini in 1934.

As time goes on, after World War I, the uncertainty principle was proposed by Heisenberg, decribing the momentum and the position of a physical can not be measured in the high precision at the same time. Similarly, more music showed up featuring noval concepts and less tonal. Arnold Schoenberg with his twelve-tone system featured the atonality. Compared to Schoenberg, who still followed traditional chords arrangement for his music, John Cage went a step further with his Imaginary Landscape 1, where Cage originally introduced randomness into music composition and explored music in a new "universe": the music projected the world the composer sees, instead of the emotions he feels, featuring openness and non-predictability, just like scientists explored the atom structure at the same time. 

The feel of randomness is achieved by another composer, Pierre Boulez, who used a more strict rule to compose following the method of serialism. The method is completely different from Cage's solution, since there are rules behind each note: "even the errors in the real world performance can be considered as the instantiation of loudness difference following the rule of serialism".

If John Cage opened a new gate, Pierre Schaeffer took it up and opened up the world of recording, who came up with the idea of musique concrète as against the concept of abstract symbols in music sheets. Since then, the music could be sampled from all kinds of sound from the real world and be brought into the concert hall by the help of tape recorders. With this completely new method to make music, Karlheinz Stockhausen, with his talent, started to use razor blade and oscillator to make special sound effects in tape recorder, and came up with his Gesang der Junglinge. Musicians were able to make more decisions for every sound they make.

From this historical trend, we can clearly see that music changes in similar paces as progression in other fields such as the progress in science and technology. With the new scientific discovery, such as the theory of Relativity and uncertainty principle, people tend to see the world in a new different way, which reflects in the music. With more innovative method to create music, such as tape recorder, more noval sounds get involved into music, which in turn might change the way of how we see the world. 

- measure of originality: has something been done before
[completely old thing, repeated in the past for many times, boring] <----------------------> [completely new, no one understand what's going on]
to be successful in the music world, new enough to be different, but also familiar enough for people to recognize yourself